                                                             ABHINAV AAKASH
                                                                                      aakash099802@gmail.com|Ph - 9811659136
LinkedIn | GitHub
                                                                                                 KIIT University, Bhubaneswar, India
                                                                                                Aspiring Machine Learning Engineer
SUMMARY
Aspiring Machine Learning Engineer skilled in developing and deploying advanced AI models, with hands-on experience in explainable fake
news detection, recommendation systems, and medical image analysis. Proficient in Python, C++, and key ML frameworks, with a strong track
record of impactful projects and research publications.
EDUCATION
YearDegree/Exam Institute CGPA/Percentage
2025B.Tech, Computer Science and Engineering Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology, Bhubaneswar 8.56 / 10
2020Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC), CBSE St. Thomas School , Ghaziabad 89.8%
2018Secondary School Certificate (SSC), CBSE St. Thomas School , Ghaziabad 84.6%
INTERNSHIPS AND PROJECT
Explainable Fake News Detection using Dynamic Feed back| Jan' 25 - Mar' 25                                                             Dr. Satyananda Champati Rai
Bhubaneswar, Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT)
○Curated and led the development of an explainable fake news detection system to address the growing challenge of misinformation, aiming to
surpass the limitations of older detection methods.
○Fine-tuned Llama 3.2 1b using Unsloth and LoRA techniques, significantly reducing computational costs and enabling rapid iteration, especially
for generating context-aware fake news justifications.
○Utilized ISOT and Indian Fake News datasets from Kaggle for robust model training.
○Integrated Ollama' s Model File for efficient management and deployment of custom fine-tuned models, allowing configurable control and
seamless backend integration.
○Employed Langchain, Langgraph, and PyTorch to build and orchestrate the model pipeline; leveraged LLMs to generate explanations for
predictions, enhancing transparency.
○Achieved 77.69%accuracy with inter-adversarial prompting and 50.80% with self-reflection prompting.
○Overcame challenges in developing inter-adversarial prompting and fine-tuning free LLMs for high-quality output.
SKILLS 
○Programming Languages: Python, C++, C.
○Hard Skills: Linear Algebra, Statistics, Data Visualization, Data Cleaning, Neural Networks, Exploratory Data Analytics, Data Interpretation. 
○Frameworks and Libraries: PyTorch, Sklearn, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Pandas, Numpy.
○Soft Skills: Time Management, Communication, Teamwork, Leadership, Event Management, Event Planning, Problem Solver. 
COURSEWORK INFORMATION
○Deep Learning ○Neural Networks
○Data Structure and Algorithms ○Artificial Intelligence
○Database Management ○Machine Learning                                      
VOLUNTEER
AISoC KIIT University| Team Member Jan' 23 - May' 24
○Played a foundational role in establishing the AI Society at KIIT University, helping it to grow over 100 members focused on AI research and
innovation.
○Assisted in organizing Symposium v1.0, an online webinar at KIIT University, aimed at discussing the latest developments in artificial
intelligence.
Organizing Committee | KIIT FEST '22 Mar' 22
○Led the creation and execution of a problem-solving / puzzle challenge, consisting 5 stages requiring teams to effectively use resources and
find unique solutions.
○Coordinated an event with over 20+ teams participating, demonstrating the competition wide reach and positive results.
PUBLICATIONS
ArsenicSkinNet| An arsenic skin cancer detection system Published in Springer
Submitted to MIWAI conference 2024, Pattaya, Thailand 
Under the guidance of George Rabeshi Obaido, University of California, Berkeley
○Developed ArsenicSkinNet , a deep learning model adapted from the EfficientNet architecture, achieving 99.61% classification accuracy for
arsenicosis skin lesion detection.
○Contributed to advancing public health solutions by designing an automated system for early detection and management of arsenicosis,
reducing diagnostic variability.
○Utilized transfer learning techniques to enhance model efficiency, enabling high performance with minimal computational resources for low-
resource settings.
○Arsenic SkinNet